feat: tanssi node docs (#271)
moondance-labs/tanssi-docs: node-operators/network-node/tanssi/index.md

---
title: Run a Tanssi Node
description: Learn how to set up and run a Tanssi node using Docker or Systemd to interact with the Tanssi network.
icon: octicons-server-24
template: index-page.html
---

# Run a Tanssi Node

> Setting up a Tanssi Node is an important step to interact with and query the Tanssi network. You have two options for configuration: using _Docker_ or _Systemd._ Whichever path you choose, we provide step-by-step tutorials to guide you through the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting up a Tanssi Node is an important step in interacting with and querying the Tanssi network. You have two options for configuration: using _Docker_ or _Systemd. Whichever path you choose, we provide step-by-step tutorials to guide you through the process.
```

## Hardware Requirements

> To run a Tanssi Node successfully, appropriate hardware is essential. A performant setup ensures reliable service and quick responses to queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Appropriate hardware is essential for running a Tanssi node successfully. A performant setup ensures reliable service and quick response to queries.
```

Recommended hardware:

> - **Recommended Configuration** - Bare metal hardware running linux debian or ubuntu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Recommended Configuration** - bare metal hardware running Linux Debian or Ubuntu
```

> - **Recommended CPUs** - Intel Ice Lake or newer (Xeon or Core series) or AMD Zen3 or newer (EPYC or Ryzen). Eight Physical cores @ 3.4 Ghz with hyperthreading disabled (SMT for AMD processors)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Recommended CPUs** - Intel Ice Lake or newer (Xeon or Core series), AMD Zen3 or newer (EPYC or Ryzen). Eight Physical cores @ 3.4 GHz with hyperthreading disabled (SMT for AMD processors)
```
